Aizen-Myoo	God of love, worshipped by prostitutes, landlords, singers and musicians. 
Ajisukitakahikone	God of thunder. 
Ama-No-Minaka-Nushi	Divine Lord of the Middle Heavens' and god of the Pole Star.
Amaterasu	Shinto goddess of the sun and the leader of the Shinto pantheon. 
Amatsu-Kami	Gods of heaven who live 'above' the earthly plain. Heavenly and eternal.
Ama-Tsu-Mara	Shinto god of smiths. He is pictured as a Cyclops.
Amatsu Mikaboshi	God of evil, his name means "August Star of Heaven".
Ame-no-hohi	(天菩比神, 天穂日命)
Ame-no-Koyane	(天児屋命 or 天児屋根命) A male deity, he is considered the "First in Charge of Divine Affairs", as well as the aide to the first Emperor of Japan.[1] He is also considered to be the ancestor of the Fujiwara family.
Ame-no-Mi-Kumari	Shinto water goddess.
Ame-no-oshihomimi	(天忍穂耳命)
Ame-no-Uzume	(天宇受売命 or 天鈿女命) Commonly called Uzume, she is the goddess of dawn and revelry, instrumental to the "missing sun motif" in Shinto.[citation needed] She is also known as The Great Persuader and The Heavenly Alarming Female.
Ame-No-Wakahiko	God sent to rule the earth. Killed by the sky god Takami-Musubi.
Amida Nyorai	(無量光佛 or 無量壽佛), commonly referred to as Amida-butsu (阿弥陀如来), he is the primary Buddha of the Pure Land school of Buddhism. He is believed to possess infinite meritorious qualities, and is known as the "Lord of the Beyond and the Afterlife". He is one of the Five Dhyani Buddhas.
Am-No-Tanabata-Hime	Goddess of weavers.
Azumi-no-isora	(阿曇磯良) is a kami of the seashore. He is considered to be the ancestor of the Azumi people.
Baku	A good spirit, known as the 'eater of dreams'.
Benten	Goddess of love, the arts, wisdom, poetry, good fortune and water.
Benzaiten	(弁才天 or 弁財天) Also known as Benten or Benzaitennyo, she is the goddess of everything that flows: words (and knowledge, by extension), speech, eloquence, and music. Said to be the third daughter of the dragon-king of Munetsuchi, over the course of years she has gone from being a protective deity of Japan to one who bestows good fortune upon the state and its people. Derived from Saraswati, the equivalent Hindu goddess.[citation needed]
Bimbogami	God of poverty. Rituals are performed to get rid of him.
Binzuru-Sonja	God of curing illness and good vision.
Bishamon	God of war, justice and protector of the law. He is one of the Shichi Fukujin
Bosatsu	Manifestation of the Buddha in the past, present or future. See bodhisattva.
Butsu	See Buddha.
Chien-Shin	A kami which is related to particular geographical area
Chimata-No-Kami	God of crossroads, highways and footpaths. He was originally a phallic god
Chup-Kamui	Sun goddess of the Ainu. She was originally the moon goddess
Daibosatsu	The Great bodhisattva or the Buddha in his last incarnation.
Daikoku	God of wealth, the soil and patron of farmers. 
Dainichi	Buddhist personification of purity and wisdom.
Daruma	(達磨), traditionally held in Buddhist mythology to be the founder of Zen Buddhism, as well as the founder of Shaolin Kung Fu. One legend reports that after years of facing a wall in meditation, Bodhidharma's legs and arms fall off due to atrophy. Daruma dolls were created in honor of this legend.
Dosojin	God of roads.
Dozoku-Shin	Ancestral kami of a dozoku, or clan. 
Ebisu	God of the wealth of the sea, he is the patron god of fishermen and fishing. 
Ekibiogami	God of plagues and epidemics.
Emma-O	Japanese Buddhist god of the underworld. He is the judge of the dead
Fudo	God of fire and wisdom, god of Astrology. 
Fudō Myōō	(不動明王), a fierce and wrathful Wisdom King who protects all by burning away impediments and defilements, and aiding them towards enlightenment.
Fujin	Shinto god of the wind. Seen as a terrifying dark demon in a leopard skin
Fukurokuju	Shinto god of wisdom, luck and prosperity.
Funadama	The boat-spirit, goddess who protects and helps mariners and fishermen.
Futsu-Nushi-No-Kami	God of fire and lightning, a war god and general of Ameratsu.
Futsunushi	(経津主神) Main deity at Katori Shrine.
Gama	God of longevity. 
Gekka-O	God of marriage. He binds the feet of lovers with a red silken cord.
Hachiman	God of war and agriculture, divine protector of the Japanese people.
Haniyasu-Hiko	God of the earth.
Haniyasu-Hime	Goddess of the earth.
Haya-Ji	God of the whirlwind.
Hiruko	God of the morning sun. Guards the health of little children.
Hoso-No-Kami	God of smallpox.
Hotei	God of happiness, laughter and the wisdom of being content. 
Idaten	(韋駄天), guardian of Buddhist monasteries and monks.
Ika-Zuchi-No-Kami	Group of even Shinto demons who reside in the Underworld. 
Iki-Ryo	The spirit of anger and envy which harms.
Inari	Both a male and female deity, god/goddess of rice and agriculture.
Isetsuhiko	(伊勢都彦命)
Ishikori-dome no Mikoto	(石凝姥命), god of metalworking.
Isora	God of the seashore.
Iwai-nushi-no-kami	(斎主尊), god name whose identity is obscure. Nihon shoki calls him Iwai-no-ushi (斎之大人) and locates him in Katori which suggest the god might be Futsunushi. But there is reason to believe he might be Takehazuchi (建葉槌命) (See Takemizuchi), and there are others who say this might even be Amaterasu.[2]Futsunushi (経津主神)
Izanagi	Primordial god of the sky and the creator of everything good and right. 
Izanami	Primordial goddess of the earth and darkness. 
Jinushigami	Minor deity who watches over a town or plot of land.
Jizo	Japanese Buddha of great compassion. 
Juichimen	Buddhist god of mercy.
Jurojin	Shinto god of longevity and a happy old age. One of the Shichi Fukujin
Kagutsuchi	Japanese god of fire.
Kamado-Gami	Gods of the hearth.
Kami-Kaze	God of wind, storms and viscous cold weather.
Kaminari	Goddess of thunder, the Thunder Queen and the Heavenly Noise.
Kanayama-Hiko	God of metals.
Kanayama-Hime	Goddess of metals.
Kangiten	god (deva) of bliss.
Kannon	(観音), a Bodhisattva associated with compassion. Commonly known in English as the "Goddess of Mercy".
Kawa-No-Kami	God of rivers. Although rivers had their own god, ruler of all rivers.
Kenro-Ji-Jin	God of earth.
Kishi-Bojin	Goddess of children and childbirth
Kishijoten	Goddess of luck and beauty
Kishimo-Jin	Buddhist goddess of compassion and protectress of children.
Kojin	Ancient tree deity and goddess of the kitchen. She lives in an enoki tree.
Konohanasakuya-hime	(木花之開耶姫), the wife of Ninigi and daughter of Ōyamatsumi, and great-grandmother of Jimmu. She is also known as the goddess of Mount Fuji. She is also known by the name Sengen.
Ko-No-Hana	The Blossom Princess, she is the goddess of spring
Koshin	God of the roads.
Kotoshironushi
Koya-No-Myoin	God of the sacred Mount Koya
Kuebiko	(久延毘古) god of knowledge and agriculture, represented in Japanese mythology as a scarecrow who cannot walk but has comprehensive awareness.
Kukunochi-No-Kami	Shinto god of the trees.
Kuni-Toko-Tachi	Earth deity who lives in Mt. Fuji.
Kura-Okami	God of rain and snow.
Kuraokami	(闇龗), Okami (龗), or Okami no kami (淤加美神) is a legendary Japanese dragon and Shinto deity of rain and snow.
Marisha-Ten	Queen of heaven, goddess of the light, sun and moon.
Mawaya-No-Kami	Kami, or deity of the toilet
Miro	Japanese name for Maitreya.
Miyazu-Hime	Goddess of royalty.
Monju-Bosatsu	Japanese Buddhist bosatsu of wisdom and knowledge.
Moreya
Musubi-No-Kami	God of love and marriage. Appears as a handsome young lover.
Nai-No-Kami	God of earthquakes.
Naka-Yama-Tsu-Mi	God of mountain slopes.
Nigihayahi-no-mikoto	(饒速日尊, 天照国照彦天火明櫛玉饒速日尊) reportedly called "Furu" and said to be a son of "Futsushi". Only Nigihayahi (Furu) has the name of "Amateru (天照)" among Japanese deities. It is clearly described that Nigihayahi was ruling Yamato (ancient name of the capital and the center of Japan) before conquest war of emperor Jinmu in the two oldest official history books of Japan, "Kojiki" (712) or "Nihon Shoki" (720). According to Nihon Ōdai Ichiran, Nigihayahi descended from the Heaven and was then served by and under the protection of Nagasunebiko, but after having been conquered, the relics Jingi brought by Nigihayahi as proof of his legitimacy were proven inferior to the mere bow and arrows of Emperor Jimmu. His descendants became thus the servants of the Imperial Dynasty.
Nikko-Bosatsu	Buddhist god of sunshine and good health.
Ninigi-No-Mikoto	Rice god and ancestral god of the Japanese imperial family.
Nominosukune	God of wrestling.
Nyorai	Japanese name for all of the Buddha's appearances.
Oanomochi	God of the crater of Mt. Fuji.
Oda Nobunaga	enshrined at Kenkun-jinja.
Ohonamochi	A god of the earth.
Oho-Yama	The great mountain god.
Okuni-Nushi	God of magic and medicine, ruler of the unseen things and the spirit world.
Omoikane	(思兼) The deity of wisdom and intelligence, who is always called upon to "ponder" and give good counsel in the deliberations of the heavenly deities.
Owatatsumi	God of the sea.
Oyamatsumi	A god of the mountains
Raiden	God of thunder and lightning
Raijin	(雷神) Commonly called Raiden (雷電), he is the god of thunder and lightning, and is often paired with Fūjin. As with the latter, Raijin is usually depicted as an oni.
Ryo-Wo	God of the sea. known as the Dragon King
Ryūjin	(龍神) Also known as Ōwatatsumi, he is a dragon, as well as god of the sea. He resides in Ryūgū-jō, his palace under the sea built out of red and white coral, from where he controls the tides with magical tide jewels. His great-grandson would become Emperor Jimmu.
Sae-No-Kami	A group of kami, or deities, who guard the roads of Japan.
Sambo-Kojin	God of the kitchen. Pictured with three faces and two pairs of hands.
Sarutahiko Ōkami	(猿田毘古神), a kami of the Earth that guided Ninigi to the Japanese islands.
Satimasuma	(天苗加命) reportedly called "Futsushi" and said a son or elder brother of "Futsu".
Seidai Myōjin	god of sports, enshrined at Shiramine Shrine in Kyoto, especially worshipped for kemari and football.
Sengen	See Ko-no-Hana.
Shaka	The silent sage, the wisest and first appearance of Buddha on earth.
Shichi Fujukin	Gods of Luck: Benten, Bishamon, Daikoku, Ebisu, Fukurokuju, Hotei
Shinda	Ainu fertility god of the island of Hokkaido.
Shine-Tsu-Hiko	God of the wind, he fills the space between heaven and earth.
Shoden	See Ganesha.
Shoki	God of the afterlife and exorcism.
Shōtoku Taishi	was sometimes worshipped by Shintoists in Prince's Hall (太子堂 Taishido) as the Kami of building trade and easy birth, like in the Hokai-ji of Kamakura.
Suijin	Deity of the water.
Suitengu	Child god of the sea.
Sukuna-Biko	Dwarf god of healing, agriculture and hot springs.
Susanoo-no-Mikoto	(須佐之男尊) Alternately romanized as Susano-o, Susa-no-o, and Susanowo. Reportedly called "Futsushi". He is the god of storms as well as in some cases the god of the sea. He is also somewhat of a trickster god, as Japanese mythology extensively documents the "sibling rivalry" between him and Amaterasu. Susanoo also was responsible for the slaying of the monster Yamata no Orochi and the subsequent discovery of the sacred sword Kusanagi.
Susanowa	God of the winds, storms, ocean and snakes in Shinto mythology. 
Tajimamori	(田道間守), god who obtained the tokijiku no kagu no mi in Tokoyo-no-kuni, and hailed as "god of wagashi" (sweets, confections).
Takami-Musubi	Primordial sky god and creator of living things in Shinto belief.
Takemikazuchi	known as a god of thunder and the god of swords.
Takeminakata
Taki-Tsu-Hiko	God of rain.
Ta-no-Kami	(田の神), is a kami who is believed to observe the harvest of rice plants or to bring a good harvest, by Japanese farmers.
Tatsuta-Hime	Goddess of autumn.
Tenjin	God of learning, language and calligraphy. He taught humans to write.
Tōshō Daigongen	(Tokugawa Ieyasu) enshrined at Nikkō Tōshō-gū and similar shrines.
Toyotama-hime	(豊玉姫) Also known as Otohime (乙姫), she was the daughter of Ryūjin and the grandmother of Jimmu. It is said that after she gave birth to her son, she turned into a dragon and disappeared.
Toyotomi Hideyoshi	enshrined at Toyokuni-jinja.
Toyo-Uke-Bime	Goddess of earth, food and agriculture.
Toyouke-Omikami	Goddess of grain.
Tsuki-Yumi	God of the moon and brother of the sun goddess Ameratsu.
Tsukuyomi-no-Mikoto	(月読の命 or 月夜見の尊) Also known as Tsukiyomi, Tsuki no Kami, Tsukiyomino Mikoto, and Tsukiyumi no Mikoto, he is the god of the moon. He killed the goddess of food, Uke Mochi, out of disgust and anger in the way she had prepared a meal. This caused Amaterasu to never face him again, causing the sun and moon to be in different parts of the sky.
Uba	Spirit of the pine tree. Means 'old woman' or 'wet nurse'.
Ugajin	a harvest and fertility kami represented with the body of a snake and head of a man or woman. S/he may be derived from Ukanomitama.
Uga-No-Mitama	Goddess of agriculture.
Ukemochi	Goddess of fertility and food.
Uzume	Shinto goddess of joy and happiness.
Wakahiru-Me	Goddess of the rising sun.
Wata-Tsu-Mi	God of the sea.
Yabune	Japanese house god.
Yakushi Nyorai	(薬師如来), a Buddha known for healing and medicine.
Yama-No-Kami	Goddess of the hunt, forest, agriculture and vegetation.
Yamato	The soul or spirit of Japan.
Yuki-Onna	The Snow Queen or goddess of winter.