Absu	Babylonian, god of the underwater ocean. Usually seen as a concept rather than a being. Consort to Tiamat.
Adad	Babylonian, god of storms. A version of Ninurta.
Adapa	Babylonian, sent by Ea to deliver the arts of civilization to man. One of the earliest mythical characters.
Aia	Babylonian, consort to Shamash.
Anshar	Babylonian, god of the whole sky. His name means An=heaven, shar-whole or entire.
An	Sumerian, god of heaven, pantheon leader prior to 2500 BC. The word “an” means “heaven.”
Antum	Babylonian, goddess of the earth.
Anu	Babylonian, god of heaven, god of monarchs. Transcendent, not immanent.
Anunna
Anunnaki	Babylonian, the gods of the earth.
Aruru	Babylonian, goddess of, mother goddess, created mankind with the help of Enki or Enlil.
Asalluhi
Ashnan	Sumerian, goddess of grain fields.
Ashur	Babylonian, god of war.
Ašimbabbar	see Nanna
Aššur
Aya
Baba
Bel	Babylonian, god of sages. An epithet meaning, generally, “Lord.” Some have said that he is Marduk.
Belet-ili	see Mother Goddess
Belet-ṣeri	see Geštinanna
Belili	Babylonian, sister of Tammuz, "the one who always weeps."
Belit-tseri	Babylonian, scribe of the underworld, kneels before Ereshkigal.
Birdu	Babylonian, (Means ‘pimple’) an underworld messenger.
Dagan	Babylonian, chthonic god of fertility.
Damkina	Babylonian, consort to Ea, mother of Marduk.
Damu
Dilimbabbar	see Nanna
Dumuzi	Sumerian, shepherd king. A fertility demi-god.
Ea	Babylonian, god of the fresh waters, lord of wisdom, lord of Incantations. Babylonian version of Enki.
Ellil	Babylonian, god of wind/storm, originally the leader of the pantheon until Anu took over. His name means El=lord, lil=air.
Emesh	Sumerian, god of summer. His name means “summer.”
Enkidu	Sumerian, Best friend of Gilgamesh. Raised with the wild animals, tamed by a woman.
Enki	Sumerian, god of water and wisdom. En=lord, ki=earth. He’s the god of water because water is not only stronger than earth, but it also fertilizes the earth.
Enlil	Sumerian, god of air, pantheon leader after 2500 BC. En=lord, lil=air.
Enten	Sumerian, god of winter. His name means “winter.”
Ereshkigal	Sumerian, goddess of the underworld. Eresh=queen, ki=earth, gal=great. The “great earth” refers to the underworld.
Ereškigal
Erra
Garra	Babylonian, god of fire. Destructive and cleansing fire.
Geshtinanna	Sumerian, sister to Dumuzi. Her name means Vine of Heaven. Before the yearly planting cycle was turned over to Dumuzi, Geshtinanna took half the year, from Spring to Fall Equinox.
Geshtu-e	Babylonian, god of whose blood and intelligence are used by Mami to create man.
Geštinanna
Gilgamesh	Sumerian, demi-god, king of Erech.
Girra
Gula
Gushkin-banda	Babylonian, creator of man and gods, a goldsmith. Crafters of all types were major roles in temples.
Haya
Huwawa	Sumerian, god of the cedar forest, killed by Gilgamesh and Enkidu.
Igigi
Igigi	Babylonian, the gods of heaven.
Inana
Irra	Babylonian, god of plagues.
Ishkur	Sumerian, god of the winds. A version of Ninurta.
Ishtar	Babylonian, goddess of passion, war, prostitution, the Babylonian version of Inanna
Ishum	Babylonian, god of fire.
Kishar	Babylonian, goddess of the whole earth. Her name means Ki=earth, shar=whole or entire.
kur	Sumerian, means mountain. Depending on the reference, could mean the underworld.
Lahamu	Babylonian, first children of Tiamat and Absu.
Lahar	Sumerian, goddess of cattle
Lahmu
Lamashtu	Babylonian, demoness "she who erases."
Lugalerra	see Lugalirra and Meslamtaea
Lugalgirra	see Lugalirra and Meslamtaea
Lugalirra
Mammetum	Babylonian, goddess of the maker or mother of fate.
Marduk	Babylonian, god of magic. Main god of the pantheon, although he isn’t the chief. Killed Tiamat and used her body to create the earth and sky out of respect for her battle prowess.
Meslamtaea
Meslamtaea	see Lugalirra and Meslamtaea
Mullissu	see Ninlil
Mummu	Babylonian, god of craftsmen.
Mushdamma	Sumerian, god of houses and foundations
Mylitta	see Ninlil
Nabu	Babylonian, god of writing and wisdom.
Namma
Nammu	Babylonian, goddess of "the pure goddess", associated with fresh water. Nammu was the Primordial Mother Goddess, creator of the gods, in the Sumerian myths. She got demoted by the time the Babylonians got to her.
Namtar	Sumerian, demon of fate, responsible for death.
Nanaya
Nanna
Nanna-Seun	Sumerian, god of the moon. Technically, “nanna” refers to the full moon. Seun, sometimes spelled Sin, pronounced “seen,” refers to the new moon. Father to Utu (Shamash) and Inanna
Nedu	Babylonian, guardian of the underworld gate. Same as the Sumerian Neti.
Nergal	Babylonian, god of the underworld, husband to Ereshkigal, lover of Mami, creator of humans.
Neti	Sumerian, chief gatekeeper of the underworld, the scribe of the underworld.
Nidaba	Sumerian, goddess of writing.
Nin-agal	Babylonian, god of smiths.
Ninazu
Ningal	Babylonian, consort of Sin, mother of Shamash, the sun. Her name means nin=lady, gal=great. Great Lady.
Ningirsu
Ningishzida	Sumerian, god of dawn.
Ningizzia	Babylonian, guardian of the gate of heaven, lives in the underworld. He guards the eastern gate, the gate of morning.
Ninhursaga	Sumerian, goddess of the earth. Her name means “lady of the mountain-side".
Ninhursanga	see Mother Goddess
Nin-ildu	Babylonian, god of carpenters.
Ninisinna
Ninkarrak	see Gula
Ninkasi	Sumerian, goddess of brewing
Ninlil	Babylonian, Ellil’s consort. Her name means nin=lady, lil=air. Same deity as the Sumerian goddess.
Ninmah	see Mother Goddess
Ninsi'anna
Ninšubur	see Papsukkal
Ninsumun
Ninsun	Babylonian, mother of Gilgamesh, who knows all and interprets dreams
Nintud	see Mother Goddess
Nintur	Mother Goddess
Ninurta	Babylonian, god of war, a champion of the land. Same as the Sumerian deity of the same name.
Nissaba	Babylonian, goddess of cereal grains.
Nudimmud	see Enki
Numušda
Nunamnir	see Enlil
Nusku	Babylonian, god of fire. The ‘night-light’ of the gods. A good, illuminating night-time fire.
Pabilsag
Papsukkal
Qingu	Babylonian, Tiamat’s battle leader, elevated to her Consort after Apsu is killed. Traitor. His blood was used to create humans to serve the gods.
Šala
Šamaš	see Utu
Sebitti	Babylonian, the seven warrior gods led by Erra (Irra).
Šerida	see Aya
Shamash	Babylonian, god of the sun. Babylonian version of the Sumerian Utu. Interestingly, IMO, is that the Ugaritic sun is named Shapash, a female deity.
Sharra	Babylonian, god of submission. I haven’t been able to confirm this with any myth, so I’m not sure about it. The concept makes sense, though, so I’ll keep it here for the moment.
Sin	Babylonian, god of the moon. His name is pronounced “seen.” Same deity as the Sumerian Nanna-Seun. His temple was the last pagan temple in Europe to fall; this was at Hurran, Turkey.
Sin	see Nanna
Suen	see Nanna
Sumuqan	Babylonian, god of cattle, lives in the underworld.
Tammuz	Babylonian, demi-god of vegetation. Same of the Sumerian Dumuzi.
Tašmetu
Tiamat	Babylonian, Mother goddess, mother to the first gods. Imaged as a dragon at the bottom of the sea, the absu.
Uttu	Sumerian, god of the sun.
Zababa
Zaltu	Babylonian, goddess of strife.
Ziusudra	Sumerian, Sumerian version of Noah.
Zu	A very bad bird who stole the me and had to be hunted down. I'm a thunderbird person, so I can forgive him.