Aegir	Norse God of the sea. Married to Ran and lives under the waves near the island of Hlesey.
Aesir	A group of warrior gods led by Odin who inhabit Asgard.
Alfheim	The land of the light elves in Asgard
Algron	Island where Odin (Harbard) stayed for five years
Asgard
Asgard	Land of the Aesir
Baldur	Son of Odin and Frigg. Known as a gentle and wise god. Killed accidentally by his brother Hod. Will return after Ragnarok.
Bifrost	The flaming rainbow bridge between Asgard and Midgard
Bilskirnir	Thor’s hall in Asgard
Bolverk	The alias Odin adopted when disguised as a giant to win the mead of poetry.
Bor	Son of Buri and father of Odin, Vili and Ve.
Bragi	The Norse God of poetry and eloquence. Son of Odin and husband of Idun.
Breidablik	Balder’s hall in Asgard
Buri	Ancestor of the Norse gods. Created by the cow Audmula licking him from ice.
Day	Son of Night and Delling. Said to ride around the earth on his horse Skinfaxi.
Earth	Daughter of Night and Annar.
Einherjar	Band of dead warriors in Valhalla who await Ragnarok.
Eir	Goddess of healing
Elivagar	The eleven rivers that flow from the spring of Hvergelmir in Niflheim.
Eljudnir	Hel’s hall in Nifleheim
Fensalir	Frigg’s hall in Asgard
Fjorgyn	Lover of Odin and mother of Thor. Also referred to as Earth.
Folkvang	Site of Freyja’s hall in Asgard
Forseti	God of Justice. Son of Balder and Nanna.
Franang’s Falls	Waterfall in Midgard where Loki, disguised as a salmon, was caught by the gods.
Freyja	Main goddess of the Vanir (fertility gods). Daughter of Njord and sister of Freyr.
Freyr	Important god of the Vanir. Son of Njord and brother of Freyja.
Frigga	Main goddess. Wife of Odin and mother of Balder.
Fulla	Goddess servant of Frigga.
Gangnrad	Pseudonym of Odin when he visits Vafthrudnir.
Gefion	Fertility goddess. Associated with the plow. Tricked the king of Sweden out of a tract of his land.
Geirrendour
Gimli	Hall of the gods after Ragnarok
Ginnungagap	The void between Muspell and Nifleheim before the creation.
Gladsheim	Sanctuary of the Norse gods on the plain of Ida.
Glitnir	Silver and gold hall of Forseti, son of Balder, in Asgard.
Gnipahellir	Cave in front of Niflheim where the hound Garm is chained up.
Grimnir	Pseudonym of Odin when he visits his foster son Geirrod, King of the Goths.
Gullveig	A Vanir goddess (probably Freyja) who is burned three times by the Aesir.
Harbard	Odin disguised as a ferryman when he wrangles with Thor.
Heimdall	Watchman of the Norse gods and owner of the horn Gjall. Son of nine mothers. Often identified with Rig, the creator of three races of men.
Helheim	The realm of the dead in Niflheim, ruled over by the monster Hel.
Hel	ruler of Helheim, the realm of the dead
Hermod	Son of Odin. Rode to Hel to try and rescue his brother Balder.
Himinbjorg	Heimdall’s hall in Asgard
Hlesey	Island near the undersea hall of Aegir and Ran.
Hlidskjalf	Odin’s high thrown in Valaskjalf.
Hlin
Hnitbjorg	Stronghold of the giant Suttung.
Hod	Son of Odin. A blind god who accidentally killed his brother Balder. he will return after Ragnarok.
Honir	A long-legged, indecisive god. Sent to the Vanir to seal the truce between them and the Aesir. He will survive Ragnarok.
Hvergelmir	Spring in Niflheim under the root of Yggdrasill.
Idavoll	The central plain of Asgard. Contains the halls of Gladsheim and Vingolf.
Idun	Guardian of the golden apples of youth and wife of Bragi.
Iving	River dividing Asgard from Jotunheim
Jotunheim	Land of the giants
Kvasir	the wisest. Created from the spittle of the gods.
Laga
Lofn	Goddess of ilicit unions.
Loki	The sly, trickster of the Norse gods. Son of two giants. Also known as the Sly One, the Trickster, the Shape Changer and the Sky Traveller. Becomes increasingly more evil. He is responsible for the death of Balder. Bound until Ragnarok.
Lyfjaberg	Mountain beside Menglad’s hall in Jotunheim.
Lyngvi	Island on lake Armsvartnir where Fenrir is bound.
Lyr	Menglad’s hall in Jotunheim
Magni	Son of Thor and the giantess Jarnsaxa. Will inherit Thor’s hammer Mjollnir with his brother Modi after Ragnarok.
Midgard	The realm of mankind.
Mimir’s Well	Well of wisdom under the root of Yggdrasill in Asgard which is guarded by the head of Mimir.
Mimir	Wise Aesir god. Sent to the Vanir to seal the truce between the two groups of the Norse gods. Killed by the Vanir, his head is kept by Odin.
Modgud	Maiden guardian of the bridge over the river Gjoll in Jotenheim.
Modi	Son of Thor and the giantess Jarnsaxa. Will inherit Thor’s hammer Mjollnir with his brother Magni after Ragnarok.
Moon	Son of Mundilfari. Guides the moon on it’s course.
Muspell	Southern land of fire guarded by the giant Surt.
Nanna	Wife of Balder and daughter of Nep.
Narvi	Also known as Nari. Son of Loki and Sigyn who was killed by his brother Vali.
Nastrond	Site of the hall of evil-does in Hel. The dragon Nidhogg gnaws at corpses here.
Niflheim	Land of freezing mist and darkness and home of Hel.
Night	Daughter of Narvi and mother of Day. Rides around the earth on her horse Hrimfaxi.
Njord	A Vanir god associated with wind and sea. Husband of Skadi and father of Freyja and Freyr.
Norns	Urd “fate”, Skuld “being” and Verandi “necessity”. Three goddesses of destiny.
Odin	King of the Norse Gods, God of poetry, battle and death. Chief god of the Aesir. Also known as the “all-father”, the “terrible one”, “one-eyed” and “father of battle”.
Od	Missing husband of Freyja who she constantly mourns for.
Okolnir	Land of warmth created after Ragnarok. Site of the hall of Brimnir.
Ragnarok
Ran	Wife of Aegir who dragged drowning men down with her net.
Rig	Pseudonym of Heimdall and the creator of three races of men.
Rind	Goddess and lover of Odin. Mother of Vali.
Saga	Goddess and drinking companion of Odin.
Sessrumnir	Freyja’s hall in Asgard.
Sif	Wife of Thor whose golden hair was cut off by Loki.
Sigyn	Wife of Loki.
Sindri	Red gold roofed hall which will appear after Ragnarok.
Sjofn	Goddess of human passion.
Skadi	Goddess of Winter and of the Hunt
Sokkvabekk	Saga’s hall in Asgard
Sol
Sun	Daughter of Mundilfari and guide of the sun.
Svartalfheim	Realm of the dark elves.
Syn	Goddess of the accused at trial.
Thor	God of Sky, thunder and fertility. Associated with law and order in Asgard and guardian of the Norse gods. Son of Odin and Earth and husband of Sif. Also known as the “thunder god” and “charioteer”.
Thrud	Daughter of Thor. Promised to the dwarf Alvis.
Thrudheim	Thor’s realm in Asgard and site of his hall Bilskirnir.
Thrymheim	Stronghold of the giant Thiazi which was passed on to his daughter Skadi.
Tyr	War god. Son of Odin who sacrificed his hand in the binding of Fenrir.
Ull	God of archery and skiing.
Utgard	Realm in Jotunheim ruled by Utgard-Loki.
Valaskjalf	Odin’s hall in Asgard.
Valhalla	Hall presided over by Odin where the Einherjar await Ragnarok.
Vali	Son of Odin and the giantess Rind. Conceived to avenge the death of Balder.
Valkyries	Beautiful women who carried dying warriors to Valhalla.
Vanaheim	Land of the Vanir in Asgard.
Vanir	Fertility gods.
Var	Goddess of marriage oaths.
Ve	Son of Bor and brother of Odin and Vili.
Vidar	Son of Odin and the giantess Grid who will avenge Odin’s death after Ragnarok.
Vigrid	Plain in Asgard where the final battle will occur.
Vili	Son of Bor and brother of Odin and Ve.
Vingolf	Hall of the goddesses in Asgard.
Vor	Goddess who knows all.
Ydalir	Ull’s hall in Asgard.
Ygg
Yggdrasill	The world tree (Hodmimir’s wood)
Zisa
